we have a status report tonight on
climate change and how visible it is in
one of the most stunning places on the
globe if you have the chance in life to
journey to the bottom of the earth to
Antarctica you'll see it unfolding in
dramatic fashion NBC's Kerry Sanders is
just back from there and has our report
tonight it's the waiting days of summer
in Antarctica and there's an annual race
on penguins are hatching parents nursing
their chicks before that first swim in
the southern ocean often it's their last
because of what lurks below you know the
famous livid scene in which is number
one penguin kina it's part of the
balance of life here leopard seals eat
up to 25 Penguins a day some people say
there are only two different types of
penguins the white ones walking towards
you and the black ones walking away but
there are 18 different types of penguins
and more than a half have reason to
worry in the last 50 years average
winter temperatures here have risen ten
point seven degrees the national snow
and ice data center measured the lowest
sea ice cover ever in Antarctica just
six months ago August in this part of
the world is the foundation of life see
those watermelon and green colors on the
glaciers that's algae underneath the
immense icebergs and the frozen ocean
that algae feeds krill and those shrimp
like krill are the main source of food
for penguins seals and whales less ice
has resulted in 80% fewer krill why is
it all happening man-made global climate
change say an overwhelming number of
scientists like Fabrice Jian of what you
have to be a either a liar or a crazy
not to understand that we are doing I
mean actually something on the kind of
change I mean we are responsible of the
climate change today that's what's wrong
the remote and harsh nature of
Antarctica makes penguin counts in exam
scientists use time-lapse cameras to
count populations in some spots the
colonies of penguins known as a delis
have dropped by a stunning 90
soon we should not kid ourselves and
thinking that that will not have
consequences we don't need to
necessarily need to fear change but it
will change the world as we know it like
a canary in the coal mine
experts say the Penguins are giving us a
warning